# CS210-Journal

In this project, I was to demonstrate my coding skills by developing a clock that shows both the 12 and 24 hour format in which both will update simultaneously. I must demonstrate this through OOP by using the C++ language and must abide by the international standard since the company putting me to the test has clients both domestic and internaltional. To assure I am following the proper steps and to demonstrate that I can, a flowchart is given in which my code should follow and make sure it can iterate the loop as demonstrated in the chart. By doing so, I am proving my skills and knowledge as a developer using C++.

I feel what I did well was in my code structure in organizing it all so that it flows properly and generates the program as intended. Making the different files that will work in tandem to make the program well and dividing each function of the program in blocks with comments to specify what the purpose of that block of code is for so if an update needs to be made to something specifically, the section that contains that portion is easy to find.

A part that I struggled a lot was the development of the clock, being having them show in the correct format and making sure they both update at the same time and update correctly as well. One of the major issues I had in this aspect was that the 24 hour clock was not wrapping after reaching 24, it will continue to increment rather than resetting to 0. To help with this issue, I had to make sure the void functions used for incrementing the time, whether in seconds, minutes, or hours is incrementing properly and wraps after reaching a certain value rather than to continue to increment. Asking in forums for help like reddit or stack over flow helped in which if else statements were recommended to set a limit of how high it should count and when to wrap back to 0.

Skills that I found were transferable from this project was the structuring of an OOP application, which is essential because in a real world setting importing and exporting files is common and using different files for different sections of the code makes it cleaner and organized to know what functions the files will contain and their purpose. Also, because this was my first project using C++, it helped demonstrate my ability to understand the language and actually create something through the knowledge that I've gained and my ability to work with others by asking questions on what I can do to make a certain thing work and what I can change to improve the code.

I made the code manageable by organizing everything and separating the functions in different files based on their purpose. Like main containing all of the functions that creates the main menu, while the clock file is what gives function to the clock and how it will be formatted. Also the use of inline comments to make it more readable and make it easier to identify the purpose of the different blocks of code, so if any changes need to be made to a certain portion of the code it will be easier to identify. 
